Add reference documentation for Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet (#927)
PowerShell/DSC: docs/reference/resources/Microsoft/DSC/Transitional/RunCommandOnSet/examples/run-a-simple-command.md

ms.date: 06/30/2025
ms.topic: reference
title: Run a simple command
---

# Run a simple command

This example shows how you can use the `Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet` resource to
execute a simple command during the **Set** operation.

## Test whether the command would run

The following snippet shows how you can use the resource with the [dsc resource test][01] command to check whether the command would run.

> [!NOTE]
> The `dsc resource test` command performs a synthetic test on this resource. `Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet` doesn't have
> the `test` capability defined in the [resource manifest][02]

```powershell
$instance = @{
  executable = "echo"
  arguments  = @("Configuration applied successfully")
} | ConvertTo-Json

dsc resource test --resource Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet --input $instance
```

When testing the resource, DSC returns a result indicating the desired state:

```yaml
desiredState:
  arguments:
  - Configuration applied successfully
  executable: echo
actualState:
  executable: echo
  arguments:
  - Configuration applied successfully
inDesiredState: true
differingProperties: []
```

> The `inDesiredState` field of the result object is set to `true`, indicating that the command would be executed during a **Set** operation.

Author: Added a reference link to the `set` operation to clarify on pretest. Let me know what you think.

---
description: >
  Example showing how you can invoke the Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet resource with DSC to run a simple command.

ms.date: 06/30/2025
ms.topic: reference
title: Run a simple command
---

# Run a simple command

This example shows how you can use the `Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet` resource to
execute a simple command during the **Set** operation.

> ## Test whether the command would run
> 
> The following snippet shows how you can use the resource with the [dsc resource test][00] command to check whether
> the command would run.
> 
> > [!NOTE]
> > The `dsc resource test` command performs a synthetic test on this resource. `Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet` doesn't have
> > the `test` capability defined in the [resource manifest][01]
> 
> ```powershell
> $instance = @{
>     executable = "C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe"
>     arguments = @(
>         '/C',
>         'echo Hello world'
>     )
> } | ConvertTo-Json
> 
> dsc resource test --resource Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet --input $instance
> ```
> 
> When testing the resource, DSC returns a result indicating the desired state:
> 
> ```yaml
> desiredState:
>   arguments:
>   - /C
>   - echo Hello world
>   executable: C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe
> actualState:
>   executable: C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe
>   arguments:
>   - /C
>   - echo Hello world
> inDesiredState: true
> differingProperties: []
> ```
> 
> The `inDesiredState` field always returns `true` because of [pretest][02] is supported.
> This means the command is always executed during the **Set** operation.
> 

Reviewer: I think we should remove this section. We can't test whether the command will run - it _always_ executes. We can explain _why_ this behavior happens in the main document, but anyone arriving here is likely to be confused. The behavior is non-intuitive and requires explanation better kept to the main document.

```suggestion
```

## Run the command

> 
> To execute the command, use the [dsc resource set][03] command.
> 
> ```powershell
> dsc resource set --resource Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet --input $instance
> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion

The following snippet shows how you can invoke the resource to execute a custom command with [dsc resource set][03].

```powershell
$instance = @{
    executable = "C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe"
    arguments = @(
        '/C',
        'echo Hello world'
    )
} | ConvertTo-Json

dsc resource set --resource Microsoft.DSC.Transitional/RunCommandOnSet --input $instance
```
``````
